OSDOCS-5543:Adding performance and resource recommendatiaons (#57451)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/network-observability-resource-recommendations.adoc

//module included in the following assemblies:
// network_observability/configuring_operator.adoc

:_content-type: REFERENCE
[id="network-observability-resource-recommendations_{context}"]

> = Resource management and performance recommendations

Reviewer: The IBM SG dedicated a section to claims and recommendations. This page details the possible legal implications of stating recommendations in the docs.

See, [Claims and recommendations](https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/ibm-style?topic=information-claims-recommendations)

What about something like:

> Resource management and performance considerations

Reviewer 2: @skrthomas  I'd leave it up to you. There are hundreds of instances of recommended/recommendation in the docs. 
 @dfitzmau  Good catch on the ISG!

> The amount of resources required by Network Observability depends on the size of your cluster and your requirements for ingesting and storing observability data. There are settings to consider that can help you get an optimal setup and observability.

Reviewer: Sorry this phrase might be interpreted that a user ingests and stores observability data :). How about:

> The amount of resources required by Network Observability depends on the size of your cluster and the cluster's requirements for ingesting and storing observability data.

Author: Thanks @stleerh and @dfitzmau for helping clarify this bit. Addressed to Steven's recommended wording.

> The following settings can help you manage resources and performance from the outset:

Reviewer: I think that this lead in sentence could fuse with the sentence before it. I see the word "help" used twice.

Reviewer: Maybe "help you" might be a slight form of [anthropomorphism](https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/ibm-style?topic=grammar-anthropomorphism). 

How about:

> To manage resources and set performance criteria for your cluster, consider configuring the following settings. Configuring these settings might meet your optimal setup and observability needs.

Author: Addressed

>     eBPF Sampling:: You can set the Sampling specification, `spec.agent.ebpf.sampling`, to manage resources. Lower sampling values might consume a large amount of computational, memory and storage resources. You can mitigate this by specifying a sampling ratio value. A value of 100 means 1 flow every 100 is sampled. A value of 0 or 1 means all flows are captured. The lower the value, the increase in returned flows and the accuracy of derived metrics. By default, eBPF sampling is set to a value of 50, so 1 flow every 50 is sampled. Note that more sampled flows also means more storage needed. It is recommend to start with default values and refine empirically, to determine which setting your cluster can manage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    eBPF Sampling:: You can set the Sampling specification, `spec.agent.ebpf.sampling`, to manage resources. Lower sampling values might consume a large amount of computational, memory, and storage resources. You can mitigate this by specifying a sampling ratio value. For example, setting a value of `100` for [Y] means that [Z] samples 1 flow every 100 flows. A value of `0` or `1` means all flows are captured. The lower the value, the increase in returned flows and the accuracy of derived metrics. By default, eBPF sampling is set to a value of `50`, so 1 flow every 50 is sampled. Note that more sampled flows also means more storage needed. Consider starting with the default value and refine empirically, so that you determine which setting your cluster can manage.
```

Reviewer: I highlighted values set, I assume in some sort of configuration file.

Reviewer 2: > It is recommend to
This is the suggested format for recommendations, as far as I understand

>so that you determine
How about _in order to_ ?

Reviewer 3: On the suggestion, not sure what the "\[Y\]" and "\[Z\]" are referring to.  
  
The statement is not suggesting whether 50 is low or not.  I suggest to use the word "smaller" instead of "lower" because the smaller the sampling value, the more (higher) sampling it does!  It's an inverse relationship so avoid "lower" to avoid confusion.

Author: Thanks for weighing in on this @stleerh! Addressed.

>     eBPF Sampling:: You can set the Sampling specification, `spec.agent.ebpf.sampling`, to manage resources. Smaller sampling values might consume a large amount of computational, memory and storage resources. You can mitigate this by specifying a sampling ratio value. A value of `100` means 1 flow every 100 is sampled. A value of `0` or `1` means all flows are captured. Smaller values result in an increase in returned flows and the accuracy of derived metrics. By default, eBPF sampling is set to a value of 50, so 1 flow every 50 is sampled. Note that more sampled flows also means more storage needed. Consider starting with the default values and refine empirically, in order to determine which setting your cluster can manage.

Reviewer 4: Nit: Suggest removing the four spaces at the front of each of these description lists, even though they do work as-is. FWIW, it does mess with the highlighting a little in GH.

>     Restricting or excluding interfaces::  Reduce the overall observed traffic using `spec.agent.ebpf.interfaces` and `spec.agent.ebpf.excludeInterfaces`. By default, the agent fetches all the interfaces in the system, except the ones listed in `excludeInterfaces` and 'lo' (local interface). Note that the interface names might vary according to the CNI used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Restricting or excluding interfaces::  Reduce the overall observed traffic by setting values for `spec.agent.ebpf.interfaces` and `spec.agent.ebpf.excludeInterfaces` . By default, the agent fetches all the interfaces in the system, except the interfaces listed in `excludeInterfaces` and 'lo' (local interface). Note that the interface names might vary according to the CNI used.
``

Reviewer: Spell out CNI? I'm not familiar with this acronym but maybe it's common knowledge in this specialized area?

Reviewer 2: >`spec.agent.ebpf.excludeInterfaces` .
Not sure why you need the space here. 

Should spell out CNI.

Author: Addressed

> The following settings can be used to fine-tune performance after Network Observability has been running for a while:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After Network Observability has stablized for your cluster, you can fine-tune your cluster's performance by configuring the following settings:
```

Reviewer 2: s/After Network Observability/After the Network Observability

Reviewer 2: @dfitzmau 
I'm not sure where you got the _stablized_ (s/b stabilized?). It makes it sound like the cluster was unstable, which is not the case, as I read things. I do like the change to the active voice.
@skrthomas It might be worth a quick question to the dev/qe folks about how to determine when the user should fine-tune.

>     Restricting or excluding interfaces::  Reduce the overall observed traffic by setting the values for `spec.agent.ebpf.interfaces` and `spec.agent.ebpf.excludeInterfaces`. By default, the agent fetches all the interfaces in the system, except the ones listed in `excludeInterfaces` and 'lo' (local interface). Note that the interface names might vary according to the Container Network Interface (CNI) used.

Author: Ooo really good catch!

>     Resource requirements and limits:: Adapt the resource requirements and limits to the load and memory usage you expect on your cluster by using the `spec.agent.ebpf.resources` and `spec.processor.resources` specifications. The default limits (800MB) should be sufficient for most medium sized clusters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Resource requirements and limits:: Adapt the resource requirements and limits to the load and memory usage you expect on your cluster by using the `spec.agent.ebpf.resources` and `spec.processor.resources` specifications. The default limits of 800MB might be sufficient for most medium-sized clusters.
```

Author: Addressed

>     Cache max flows timeout:: Control how often flows are reported by the agents by using the eBPF agent's `spec.agent.ebpf.cacheMaxFlows` and `spec.agent.ebpf.cacheActiveTimeout` specifications. The higher the value specified, the less traffic is generated by the agents, which correlates with less CPU load. However, it leads to a slightly higher memory consumption, and might generate more latency in the flow collection.

Reviewer: I'm not fully sure what "it" refers to. This word can be considered a vague referent for this reasons. Would you be OK to swap "it" with the target noun?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Cache max flows timeout:: Control how often flows are reported by the agents by using the eBPF agent's `spec.agent.ebpf.cacheMaxFlows` and `spec.agent.ebpf.cacheActiveTimeout` specifications. A higher value results in less traffic being generated by the agents, which correlates with a lower CPU load. However, it leads to a slightly higher memory consumption, and might generate more latency in the flow collection.
```

Author: The 'it' refers to 'larger values' which should be clarified here. Addressed.

//
// network_observability/configuring_operator.adoc

:_content-type: REFERENCE
[id="network-observability-resource-recommendations_{context}"]
= Resource management and performance recommendations

Network Observability Operator requires a substantial amount of resources. There are settings to consider that can help you get an optimal setup without compromising on the observability.

The following settings can help you manage resources and performance:

>     Resource requirements and limits:: Adapt the resource requirements and limits to the load and memory usage you expect on your cluster by using the `spec.agent.ebpf.resources` and `spec.agent.processor.resources` specifications to. The default limits (800MB) should be sufficient for most medium sized clusters. You can read more about reqs and limits here.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    Resource requirements and limits:: Adapt the resource requirements and limits to the load and memory usage you expect on your cluster by using the `spec.agent.ebpf.resources` and `spec.processor.resources` specifications to. The default limits (800MB) should be sufficient for most medium sized clusters. You can read more about reqs and limits here.
```

    
    Cache max flows timeout:: Control how often flows are reported by the agents by using the eBPF agent's `spec.agent.ebpf.cacheMaxFlows` and `spec.agent.ebpf.cacheActiveTimeout` specifications. The higher the value specified, the less traffic is generated by the agents themselves, which also ties with less CPU load. But on the flip side, it leads to a slightly higher memory consumption, and might generate more latency in the flow collection.

    Restricting or excluding interfaces::  Reduce the overall observed traffic using `spec.agent.ebpf.interfaces` and `spec.agent.ebpf.excludeInterfaces`. Note that the interface names may vary according to the CNI used.

>     Advanced settings:: The eBPF agent offers more via environment variables that you can set through `spec.agent.ebpf.env`.

Author: OK I can remove this

//
// network_observability/configuring_operator.adoc

:_content-type: REFERENCE
[id="network-observability-resource-recommendations_{context}"]
= Resource management and performance recommendations

> Network Observability requires a substantial amount of resources. There are settings to consider that can help you get an optimal setup without compromising on the observability.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
Network Observability can require a substantial amount of resources. There are settings to consider that can help you get an optimal setup without compromising on the observability.
```

Author: I can see that. Your suggestion is good with me.

> The following settings can help you manage resources and performance:

Reviewer 6: We might want to call out eBPF sampling rate here, or link to somewhere where it is explained

Author: Agreee, this is covered elsewhere but its not really linkable; however, I think its OK to mention it in full text again here. The other place its discussed is the Viewing FlowCollector resource topic in the Configuration guidance and its mentioned as a resource management tool there, so its good to mention here as well for sure.

    Resource requirements and limits:: Adapt the resource requirements and limits to the load and memory usage you expect on your cluster by using the `spec.agent.ebpf.resources` and `spec.processor.resources` specifications. The default limits (800MB) should be sufficient for most medium sized clusters.
    
    Cache max flows timeout:: Control how often flows are reported by the agents by using the eBPF agent's `spec.agent.ebpf.cacheMaxFlows` and `spec.agent.ebpf.cacheActiveTimeout` specifications. The higher the value specified, the less traffic is generated by the agents, which correlates with less CPU load. However, it leads to a slightly higher memory consumption, and might generate more latency in the flow collection.

    Restricting or excluding interfaces::  Reduce the overall observed traffic using `spec.agent.ebpf.interfaces` and `spec.agent.ebpf.excludeInterfaces`. Note that the interface names might vary according to the CNI used.

> 

Author: ACK, Nathan also suggested mentioning Sampling here, so I will do that and relocate the Resource requirements and limits and also the cache max flows timeout. Also adding detail about the default, TY!

> 

Author: @stleerh Is this OK now?

> 

Reviewer 3: Location-wise, it's good.

The following table documents recommendations for resources depending on workload size. 
[IMPORTANT]
====
These recommended scenarios are tailored to specific workloads and should serve only as a baseline from which adjustments can be made to accommodate your workload needs.
====

.Resource recommendations
[options="header"]
|============================================================================================================================

> |                                     | Extra small (10 Nodes) | Small (25 nodes)  | Medium (65 Nodes)  | Large (125 nodes) 

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
|                                     | Extra small (10 Nodes) | Small (25 nodes)  | Medium (65 Nodes)  | Large (120 nodes) 
```

> | *Worker Node Size*                  | m5.xlarge (AWS)        | m5.4xlarge (AWS)  | m5.4xlarge (AWS)   | m5.4xlarge (AWS)

Reviewer 6: Note that we have switched from `m5` machines to `m6i` machines (see [NETOBSERV-1106](https://issues.redhat.com/browse/NETOBSERV-1106) for details) - not sure if we want to go ahead and use them for this reference or not

Reviewer 6: Works for me!

>| vCPU                                >| 4 vCPUs             >| 16 vCPUs         >| 16 vCPUs          >| 16 vCPUs

> >| Mem                                 >| 16GiB Mem           >| 64GiB Mem        >| 64GiB Mem         >| 64GiB Mem

Reviewer 6: Not sure if this is done elsewhere but do we need `vCPU` and `Mem` qualifiers repeated here?

Author: OK I consolidated these onto one row.

| *LokiStack Size*                    | 1x.extra-small         | 1x.small          | 1x.small           | 1x.medium                  
| *NetObserv Controller Memory Limit* | 400Mi (default)        | 400Mi (default)   | 400Mi (default)    | 800Mi                

> | *eBPF Sampling Rate*                | 50 (default)           | 50 (default)      | 50 (default)       | 50(default)

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
| *eBPF Sampling Rate*                | 50 (default)           | 50 (default)      | 50 (default)       | 50 (default)
```

Author: Good 👁️

| *eBPF Memory Limit*                 | 800Mi (default)        | 800Mi (default)   | 2000Mi             | 800Mi (default) 

> | *FLP CPU Limit*                     | None                   | None              | None               | None                

Reviewer 6: Wondering if we should just eliminate this row entirely?

Author: Ah yeah good point since they are defaults maybe they're unnecessary. I can remove them.

Reviewer 6: For the record I was referring to `FLP CPU Limit` specifically, I think the others could be kept

Author: Thanks for clarifying, yeah for some reason the suggestion makes it seem like lines 32-35, which are all repetitive so I thought you meant all. But OK, just FLP CPU limit it is.

| *LokiStack Size*                    | 1x.extra-small         | 1x.small          | 1x.small           | 1x.medium
| *NetObserv Controller Memory Limit* | 400Mi (default)        | 400Mi (default)   | 400Mi (default)    | 800Mi                
| *eBPF Sampling Rate*                | 50 (default)           | 50 (default)      | 50 (default)       | 50 (default)
| *eBPF Memory Limit*                 | 800Mi (default)        | 800Mi (default)   | 2000Mi             | 800Mi (default) 
| *FLP Mem Limit*                     | 800Mi (default)        | 800Mi (default)   | 800Mi (default)    | 800Mi (default)         
| *FLP Kafka Partitions*              | N/A                    | 48                | 48                 | 48            
| *Kafka Consumer Replicas*           | N/A                    | 24                | 24                 | 24
| *Kafka Brokers*                     | N/A                    | 3 (default)       | 3 (default)        | 3 (default)
|============================================================================================================================
1. Tested with AWS m6i images.

> 2. In addition to this worker and its controller, 3 infra nodes (size m5.12xlarge) and 1 workload node (size m5.8xlarge) were tested. 

Author: @nathan-weinberg is this OK?

Reviewer 6: Checked the preview but I don't think it's updated with these changes?

Reviewer 6: No worries @skrthomas - I'm a little confused as to why we are now explicitly stating `m5` machines in the table but have a footnote saying it was tested with `m6`?

Reviewer 6: I think we could just have the table say the CPU and Mem totals, and have the footnote say "Tested with AWS m6i Instances" or something like that - cc @stleerh

Author: Ohhh okay...I think the confusion is on my part. I didn't know if I should take away the m5 totally...Looking back at an earlier comment about this section, I think I'm understanding now:
> Should we be so pro-AWS?  What is our response if a customer is using a different provider?  Perhaps it should just specify the vCPU and memory and then put an asterisk there.  Then there could be a footnote that says, we tested with AWS m6i images.

I will remove the image references completely, leave the footnote and the vCPU and memory.

Author: @nathan-weinberg Should the footnote about the images also change from m5 -> m6?

Reviewer 6: No worries @skrthomas - yeah the footnote can still be `m6`

Author: Cool, I think this is fully addressed now :) but if not, please let me know.

Reviewer 6: `m6i` section

Author: Ah, yep. I think your comment and my changes adjusting the footnote crossed in the interwebs. I just pushed that change to make the footnote follow the resources and not preceed in a separate section, which we def don't want...I will adjust the machine names in the footnote for m6i. Thanks for pointing that out. I just simply replaced 'm5' with 'm6'
